Docs: Add precision support reference page (#2111)
ROCm/Tensile: docs/src/reference/precision-support.rst

.. meta::
  :description: Tensile is a tool for creating a benchmark-driven backend library for GEMM
  :keywords: precision, data types, Tensile precision, Tensile data types, ROCm

.. _precision-support:

********************************

> Precision Support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Precision support
```

********************************

Tensile supports a rich variety of data types for matrix multiplication operations, enabling optimized performance

> across different precision requirements. This document outlines the supported data types and precision formats

Reviewer: ```suggestion
across different precision requirements. This topic outlines the supported data types and precision formats
```

used in Tensile's GEMM implementations.

> Data Types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data types
```

   * - S
     - ``float``
     - 32-bit
     - | Standard IEEE 754 single precision format with 8 exponent bits, 23 mantissa bits, and 1 sign bit.

   * - H
     - ``half``
     - 16-bit
     - | IEEE 754-2008 half precision format with 5 exponent bits, 10 mantissa bits, and 1 sign bit.
       | Provides reduced precision but lower memory bandwidth requirements.

   * - B
     - ``bfloat16``
     - 16-bit
     - | Brain floating-point format with 8 exponent bits, 7 mantissa bits, and 1 sign bit. Maintains the
       | same dynamic range as float32 but with reduced precision, making it suitable for deep learning applications.

   * - F8
     - ``__hip_fp8_e4m3`` / ``__hip_fp8_e4m3_fnuz``
     - 8-bit
     - | E4M3 float8 format with 4 exponent bits, 3 mantissa bits, and 1 sign bit. Designed for ultra-low precision
       | operations while maintaining numerical stability in neural network operations.

   * - B8
     - ``__hip_fp8_e5m2`` / ``__hip_fp8_e5m2_fnuz``
     - 8-bit
     - | Brain float8 format with 5 exponent bits, 2 mantissa bits, and 1 sign bit. Provides greater dynamic range than

>        | F8 at the cost of reduced precision.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       F8 at the cost of reduced precision.
```

   * - X
     - N/A
     - 32-bit

>      - | Tensorfloat equivalent with custom bit distribution for enhanced precision in specific computation patterns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - | Tensorfloat equivalent to custom bit distribution. Used for enhanced precision in specific computation patterns
```

>        | common in neural networks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       | that are common in neural networks.
```

   * - Z
     - ``hipDoubleComplex``
     - 128-bit
     - | Double precision complex number format consisting of two 64-bit double precision values representing real
       | and imaginary components.

   * - C
     - ``hipFloatComplex``
     - 64-bit
     - | Single precision complex number format consisting of two 32-bit single precision values representing real
       | and imaginary components.

   * - I
     - ``int32_t``
     - 32-bit
     - | Standard signed 32-bit integer. Often used for accumulation in integer operations.

   * - I8
     - ``int8_t``
     - 8-bit
     - | Standard signed 8-bit integer. Commonly used in quantized neural network operations.

   * - 4xi8
     - ``int32_t``
     - 32-bit

>      - | Four 8-bit signed integers packed into a single 32-bit value. This format enables more efficient memory access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - | Four 8-bit signed integers packed into a single 32-bit value. This format provides efficient memory access
```

>        | and higher computational throughput in 8-bit integer operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       and higher computational throughput in 8-bit integer operations.
```

   * - F8B8
     - ``__hip_fp8_e4m3`` + ``__hip_fp8_e5m2``
     - 8-bit
     - | Mixed precision format where Matrix A uses float8 (E4M3) and Matrix B uses bfloat8 (E5M2). This combination

>        | balances precision needs for different inputs in matrix multiplication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       balances precision needs for different inputs in matrix multiplication.
```

   * - B8F8
     - ``__hip_fp8_e5m2`` + ``__hip_fp8_e4m3``
     - 8-bit
     - | Mixed precision format where Matrix A uses bfloat8 (E5M2) and Matrix B uses float8 (E4M3). This is the

>        | inverse of F8B8, allowing flexible precision allocation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       | inverse of F8B8, which allows flexible precision allocation.
```

> Supported GEMM Configurations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Supported GEMM configurations
```

=============================

In Tensile's GEMM implementations, data types are specified using the following terminology:

* ``Ti`` = The data type of input matrices (A/B)
* ``To`` = The data type of output matrices (C/D)
* ``Tc`` = The data type used for computation (alpha/beta)

> Standard Precision Configurations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Standard precision configurations
```

---------------------------------

> These operations use the same data type for input, output, and computation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following operations use the same data type for input, output, and computation:
```

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 15 20 20 20 25

   * - GEMM Type
     - Input (Ti)
     - Output (To)
     - Computation (Tc)
     - Description

   * - DGEMM
     - D
     - D
     - D
     - Double precision GEMM

   * - SGEMM
     - S
     - S
     - S
     - Single precision GEMM

   * - ZGEMM
     - Z
     - Z
     - Z
     - Double precision complex GEMM

   * - CGEMM
     - C
     - C
     - C
     - Single precision complex GEMM

   * - HGEMM
     - H
     - H
     - H
     - Half precision GEMM

> High-Precision Accumulation (HPA) Configurations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
High-Precision Accumulation (HPA) configurations
```

------------------------------------------------

> These operations use higher precision for computation than for inputs and/or outputs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following operations use higher precision for computation than for inputs, outputs, or both:
```

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 15 20 20 20 25

   * - GEMM Type
     - Input (Ti)
     - Output (To)
     - Computation (Tc)
     - Description

   * - GEMM_EX (HHS)
     - H
     - H
     - S
     - Half precision with single precision computation

   * - GEMM_EX (HSS)
     - H
     - S
     - S
     - Half precision input with single precision output and computation

   * - GEMM_EX (BBS)
     - B
     - B
     - S
     - BFloat16 with single precision computation

   * - GEMM_EX (BSS)
     - B
     - S
     - S
     - BFloat16 input with single precision output and computation

   * - GEMM_EX (I8II)
     - I8
     - I
     - I
     - 8-bit integer input with 32-bit integer output and computation

   * - GEMM_EX (4xi8II)
     - 4xi8
     - I
     - I
     - Packed 8-bit integer input with 32-bit integer output and computation

> 8-bit Floating-Point Configurations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8-bit floating-point configurations
```

-----------------------------------

> Tensile supports various combinations with newer 8-bit floating-point formats:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tensile supports the following combinations with newer 8-bit floating-point formats:
```

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 15 20 20 20 25

   * - GEMM Type
     - Input (Ti)
     - Output (To)
     - Computation (Tc)
     - Description

   * - GEMM_EX
     - F8
     - S
     - S
     - Float8 input with single precision output and computation

   * - GEMM_EX
     - B8
     - S
     - S
     - BFloat8 input with single precision output and computation

   * - GEMM_EX
     - F8
     - F8
     - S

>      - Float8 input/output with single precision computation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Float8 input or output with single precision computation
```

   * - GEMM_EX
     - B8
     - B8
     - S

>      - BFloat8 input/output with single precision computation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - BFloat8 input or output with single precision computation
```

   * - GEMM_EX
     - F8
     - H
     - S
     - Float8 input with half precision output and single precision computation

   * - GEMM_EX
     - B8
     - H
     - S
     - BFloat8 input with half precision output and single precision computation

> Mixed Input Type Configurations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mixed input type configurations
```

-------------------------------

> Tensile supports GEMM operations with different input types for matrices A and B:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tensile supports GEMM operations with the following input types for matrices A and B:
```

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 15 20 20 20 25

   * - GEMM Type
     - Input A/B (Ti)
     - Output (To)
     - Computation (Tc)
     - Description

   * - GEMM_EX
     - F8B8
     - S
     - S
     - Matrix A is float8, Matrix B is bfloat8, with single precision output

   * - GEMM_EX
     - B8F8
     - S
     - S
     - Matrix A is bfloat8, Matrix B is float8, with single precision output

   * - GEMM_EX
     - F8B8
     - B8
     - S
     - Matrix A is float8, Matrix B is bfloat8, with bfloat8 output

   * - GEMM_EX
     - B8F8
     - B8
     - S
     - Matrix A is bfloat8, Matrix B is float8, with bfloat8 output

   * - GEMM_EX
     - F8B8
     - H
     - S
     - Matrix A is float8, Matrix B is bfloat8, with half precision output

   * - GEMM_EX
     - B8F8
     - H
     - S
     - Matrix A is bfloat8, Matrix B is float8, with half precision output

> Configuration in Tensile

Reviewer: Is this heading apt? How about "Data types in configuration files"?

Author: Let's go with your suggestion

========================

> In Tensile's configuration files, data types are specified as part of the problem definition:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Tensile's configuration files, the following data types are specified as part of the problem definition:
```

> Example Configurations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example configurations
```

----------------------

> **Standard Single-Precision GEMM**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Standard single-precision GEMM**
```

.. code-block:: yaml

   - # SGEMM
     - {M: 5504, N: 5504, K: 5504, transposeA: false, transposeB: true, dataType: S}

> **Half-Precision with Single-Precision Accumulation**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Half-precision with single-precision accumulation**
```

.. code-block:: yaml

   - # GEMM_EX (HHS)
     - {M: 5504, N: 5504, K: 5504, transposeA: false, transposeB: true, dataType: H, destDataType: H, computeDataType: S}

> **BFloat16 Input with Float32 Output**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**BFloat16 input with Float32 output**
```

.. code-block:: yaml

   - # GEMM_EX (BSS)
     - {M: 4096, N: 4096, K: 4096, transposeA: false, transposeB: true, dataType: B, destDataType: S, computeDataType: S}

> **8-bit Integer Operations**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**8-bit integer operations**
```

.. code-block:: yaml

   - # GEMM_EX (I8II)
     - {M: 4096, N: 4096, K: 4096, transposeA: false, transposeB: true, dataType: I8, destDataType: I, computeDataType: I}

> **Mixed F8/B8 Input with Half Precision Output**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Mixed F8/B8 input with half precision output**
```

.. code-block:: yaml

   - # GEMM_EX
     - {M: 5504, N: 5504, K: 5504, transposeA: false, transposeB: true, dataType: F8B8, destDataType: H, computeDataType: S}

> Library Logic File Naming

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Library logic file naming
```
